---
date: 2010-06-02 19:57:33
title: LG Fathom - A step forward in an idea
tags: Microsoft
---
One of my old teammates just informed me about the release ofÂ [LG Fathom][1], which
was the device that I last worked on before I switched teams. I consider myself
lucky to have things I'm deeply passionate about and actually get to work on
them. It's an interesting feeling to see devices that I work on being released
and sometimes even spot them in the public. I always wonder whether the people
I saw like their devices because during day-to-day work I need to make
engineering decisions that impact the users. I would push hard for certain
things knowing that it's up to me to make things happen for the people that
will buy the phones. The reason LG Fathom is special in my book is because of
my main feature that I worked on for it - gesture unlock. CNET covered it in
the review and in [video][3].

By the way, you can change what letter is associated with what program in
control panel contrary to what the reviewer said. WM6's settings design was not
the way I would have liked it, but I guess it's hard to have everything
developed to my liking. Gesture unlock is one small step though!

A while ago I approached my manager in my 1:1 with her to talk about my desire
to play with latest and greatest software available in the phone division. I
brought up a similar idea of using gesture to write letters to accomplish other
tasks, and you can imagine how happy I was to be tasked to implement gesture
unlock for LG. To me it was a small step towards the gesture idea.

During developement I had to overcome perf issues, fix memory and existing
defects in the handwriting engine, collaborate with teammates on design for
components we both change, etc. I had the chance to work with a passionate PM
in Jason Bower, and I also enjoyed working with the tester Michael Yum. My
classmate Larry Chen also pitched in with some of the bug fixing while I was
away. It's a team effort to make it happen. I'm sure there were many more hours
of hard work by everyone else to get MTTF under control and the device
stablized.

Now that the Fathom is out, I can put a half checkmark next to one of my ideas
and continue to push forward to bring creativity and contribute to help bring
innovations to the phones I like to tinker so much.

In-depth review:
[http://pocketnow.com/software-1/video-lg-fathom-software-review][2]

  [1]: http://mobile.engadget.com/2010/05/24/lg-fathom-vs750-review/
  [2]: http://pocketnow.com/software-1/video-lg-fathom-software-review
  [3]: http://reviews.cnet.com/smartphones/lg-fathom-verizon-wireless/4505-6452_7-34109748.html?tag=mncolBtm
