---
date: 2011-05-03 21:41:26
title: Why can't I be MVP of the league?
tags: Miscellaneous, basketball, Chicago Bulls, Derrick Rose, George Dantzig, NBA, Passionate Programmer, Steve Nash
---
I wanted to blog about this for a while now whether or not Derrick Rose becomes
the MVP or not. For those who don't know, Derrick Rose is a professional
basketball player on the Chicago Bulls team. He said to reporters before the
beginning of the NBA season, "[Why can't I be MVP of the
league?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s3NVmn51zE0)", and now months later
NBA.com just announced that [he is the MVP of the
league](http://www.nba.com/2011/news/05/03/mvp-award/index.html)!

The reason I wanted to blog about his quote is because I like his attitude. He
doesn't seem arrogant, but determined and works hard. He doesn't set a ceiling
for himself, which we set for ourselves all too often. Last week I also learned
about [George Dantzig](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Dantzig), who didn't
know the two problems his professor wrote on the board was "unsolvable", so he
went ahead and solved them. How many times do we encounter something which we
immediately claim to be impossible?

The first step to achieving something is to believe that it can be done. It is
the belief and motivation that fuels us all. I don't know why we even need the
term "self motivation" because all motivations must originate from ourselves.
In Derrick Rose's case, he became the MVP in the same season, but even if he
didn't it appears that he is motivated and determined that he can be the best.
During my vacation last week, I also finished reading the book "The Passionate
Programmer". It's a really good book that my mentor bought and gave to me as a
gift. The book talked about "The easiest way to never get anything done is to
never commit to anything". To reach our goals, we need to be motivated, and be
commited, not giving up, don't quit after failures. I'm still rooting for Steve
Nash to win a championship, but I'm hoping that Derrick Rose will continue with
his career with the same attitude as he displayed this year.
