---
date: 2014-06-28 14:20:31 PDT
title: Attitude towards the Impossible
tags: Start-up, AvidTap, Kash, AvidRetail
---
Something someone said this week reminded me of the self reflection I had couple
weeks ago. I was reflecting on how I feel about startups at this stage. I feel
that while a startup is the most challenging thing I've ever done, somehow it
doesn't feel as impossible as one might think. Whether we'll succeed is still to
be seen, but I feel we have as good a chance as anyone to figure things out. We
have sufficient resources to attempt to change the world for the better.

<br>

## **Big Companies are Failing**

A week or two ago I was sharing my thoughts with my co-founders. We were sitting
around discussing strategy and the path forward as we frequently do. There are
several big companies trying to get a foothold in the same space we're in, and I
mentioned to the team that these companies are failing. These big companies have
spent massive amounts of money, lots of resources, and have no significant
traction. Their products didn't solve a problem for local businesses and didn't
provide a lot of value for consumers. I cautioned the team that we can't expect
to spend money the same way and expect a different result.

The specifics here isn't relevant to my feeling though. What I realized is that
big companies don't necessarily know what to do. They don't always have the type
of people that make things happen. It's much harder to steer a giant ship
without everything clicking already. Also, many things can be attempted with
much less resources as long as you have a great team. These realizations
contribute to my feeling that things are not so impossible.  Sometimes people
might ask "What if certain big company get into the same space?" as if success
is guaranteed for big companies. The real challenge for my team and anyone else
is whether we can build something people want. Solve that and Goliath is no
more.

<br>

## **Door-to-Door Sales**

This week is the first time all 3 of us (Geoff, Kaz, me) went selling
door-to-door in our new launch city. I closed my first sale and should be able
to close another since the owner referred me to her sister's shop. What's clear
to me is that we have the local businesses on our side. It's clear we're making
something they want. That gives me hope since no other companies are doing
exactly what we're doing. However, the challenge remains in changing consumer
behaviour and that's ridiculously hard.

Can you feel both an enormous challenge looming and at the same time see hope in
the future? At any point in time, I'm probably on varying scales of both. But
it's because of that I feel a startup isn't so impossible.

<br>

## **Optimism**

I also recently watched [Bill & Melinda Gates's commencement speech to Stanford
grads][1] with transcript [here][2]. billg said:

> Optimism is often dismissed as false hope. But there is also false hopelessness.

I think that's how I feel about startups or any insurmountable challenge. Things
are insanely hard, but is it really insurmountable? No.

Perhaps like the MDR-TB case, one makes progress towards higher cure rate and
perhaps ultimately 100% cure rate. Right now I'm just focused on testing one
hypothesis at a time and squeezing as many tests into the same time frame as
possible.
 
  [1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wug9n5Atk8c
  [2]: http://news.stanford.edu/news/2014/june/gates-commencement-remarks-061514.html
