---
date: 2015-09-27 12:53:28 PDT
title: Kash's Successful Y Combinator S14 Application
tags: Start-up, Kash, YC, YCombinator
---
I did a brain dump of my [YC interview experience][1] before and gave advice on
people's YC applications. Further down is Kash's successful application.

And here's our video:  
<iframe width="640" height="360" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/rDCLtK9qPnk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Some of our approach and strategy isn't the same as what's in our application
anymore. That's because of the learnings we've had since we wrote it. However,
the main underpinning of our thinking hasn't changed at all.

Looking back, it's interesting to note that we actually built a whole Venmo for
Canada in one month. When I talked about my YC interview experience, the P2P
experiment was what we did between getting accepted into YC and the official
start date of YC. We were cranking at full speed. That was when I cranked out
the iPhone app in a week and when Kaz got us the necessary legal paperwork in
Canada. We aren't doing that anymore based on what we saw, but I've seen other
startups and mega corps looking into it since then. I wish them good luck!

Sometimes people ask whether they should apply, and I'd tell them that working
through the YC application is an excellent way to ask yourself some hard
questions. The way I like to think about it is in terms of convincing myself
that whatever I'm working on is worth the life I'm spending on it. What
evidences do you have that convinces you of that? What secrets and contrarian
believes have you found that others don't share? What domain knowledge and
insights about people have you discovered?

<br/>

## The Application

<br/>
**What is your company going to make?**

Venmo for Brick & Mortar Retail, not just P2P. Credit card fees are the single
biggest pain point for retailers and can eat up to 50% of their profits. With
our initial product, we’ve reduced the number of credit card transactions for
our retailers by nearly 25%.

Regular ACH is slow to clear, so it doesn’t work in retail.  To solve this we
link bank account and a credit card to user’s phone. Retailers get paid right
away after a purchase. If the money is not in user’s account, we put a hold on
user’s credit card. Then we collect funds via ACH. If that fails, then we
charge the credit card.

We make money from retailers. We get users because retailers push our app to
avoid credit card fees and because we offer users free P2P transfers and cash
back on some purchases.

<br/>
**For each founder, please list (separate line for each item): YC username;
name; age; year of graduation, school, degree (unfinished in parens) and
subject for each degree; email address; personal url, github url, linkedin url,
facebook id, twitter id; employer and title for previous jobs. List the main
contact first. Separate founders with blank lines. Put an asterisk before the
name of anyone  not able to move to the Bay Area.**

CanadaKaz  
Kaz Nejatian  
31

2005, Queen’s University, Bachelor of Commerce  
2008, University of Toronto, JD

<http://www.nejatian.com>  
no github  
<https://www.linkedin.com/in/kasranejatian>  
<https://www.facebook.com/nejatian>  
[&#64;CanadaKaz](https://twitter.com/CanadaKaz)

- Director of Strategy, Citizenship & Immigration Canada
- Associate, Ropes & Gray LLP

dannysu  
Danny Su  
30

2007, University of Waterloo, Bachelor of Applied Science, Computer Engineering

<https://dannysu.com>  
<https://github.com/dannysu/>  
<https://www.linkedin.com/in/dannysu>  
[&#64;cwdannysu](https://twitter.com/cwdannysu/)

- Software Developer and Project Lead, Well.ca
- Software Development Engineer II, Microsoft

gflarity  
Geoff Flarity  
34

2003, University of Waterloo, Honours Bachelor of Mathematics, Mathematical Sciences

<http://gflarity.github.io>  
<http://github.com/gflarity>  
<http://www.linkedin.com/in/gflarity>  
[&#64;gflarity](https://twitter.com/gflarity)

- Systems Architect  Well.ca
- Team Lead, Software Developer  OANDA Corporation
- Software Developer  Morgan Stanley, Fixed Income and Credit Derivatives

<br/>
**Please tell us in one or two sentences about the most impressive thing other
than this startup that each founder has built or achieved.**

CanadaKaz designed Canada’s Startup Visa. Paul Graham once blogged that this
policy was “the single biggest thing the government could do to increase the
number of startups in the country.” Many people agreed and for nearly a decade
people had tried to make it happen.  CanadaKaz became interested in the file in
early 2012. Less than a year later, it was the law of the land.

(<https://twitter.com/kenneyjason/status/336716401819652096> <- proof)  
(<https://twitter.com/paulg/status/335632601618452484> <- Paul Graham liking CanadaKaz’s marketing campaign)

DannySu wrote an app during spare time that got over 150,000 downloads and
later bundled with all Huawei C8300 phones
<http://dannysu.com/2011/03/27/home-screen-customizer-found-on-microsoft-china/>

GFlarity led the development of a system capable of simulating 20,000+ active
electronic traders trading simultaneously on an electronic trading platform. 

<br/>
**Please tell us about the time you, CanadaKaz, most successfully hacked some
(non-computer) system to your advantage.**

In 2011, I used math to help end the decades-long political disadvantage that
my party had among immigrants to Canada. (To use an American comparison,
imagine if the majority of the African American community voted for the next
Republican candidate for President.)

My party had lost 10 out 13 elections since the 60’s because we kept losing the
votes of immigrants. In 2011, we reversed that trend, won the immigrant vote,
and handed our opposition their biggest defeat in history.

<br/>
**Please tell us about an interesting project, preferably outside of class or
work, that two or more of you created together. Include urls if possible.**

Our first start-up idea was a loyalty program that works without requiring
cashiers to verify. We took the idea of a RSA token combined with the idea of
Foursquare check-ins to produce a device that validates whether someone is
really in a store. We built the hardware together beginning from breadboard
prototypes to fully enclosed and polished product. We did this so that we could
scale to more locations with lower cost. We learned a lot from doing this but
ultimately had to do a pivot because it didn’t solve a painful enough problem
for retailers.

Pictures of the AvidTap box evolution:  
<https://dannysu.com/2013/06/14/evolution-of-box/>

<br/>
**How long have the founders known one another and how did you meet? Have any
of the founders not met in person?**

Almost three years. GFlarity and DannySu met when they both worked at Well.ca
in 2011. CanadaKaz met the two of them through FounderDating in summer of 2012.
We’ve been working together full time since fall of 2012.

<br/>
**Why did you pick this idea to work on? Do you have domain expertise in this
area? How do you know people need what you’re making?**

The first product the three of us created was a mobile loyalty solution.  It
didn’t work. We pivoted to add an Android based point-of-sale with integrated
mobile payment app. When this product hit the market, we saw a surprisingly
high percentage (8%) of customers paying via our platform.  We talked to lots
of retailers and realized they were pushing their customers to download our app
so they would avoid credit card fees. That’s why we’ve picked this idea.

CanadaKaz started working as a retailer when he was in high school at his
family’s stores. He is also a former lawyer who has represented banks and is
well versed with the regulations around the payment industry. Our dev team is
100% from University of Waterloo. They have 9 patents to their names. They’ve
built North America’s first mobile virtual store and operational tools for
large banks and financial institutions. 

<br/>
**What’s new about what you’re making? What substitutes do people resort to
because it doesn’t exist yet (or they don’t know about it)?**

We marry the the advantages of ACH (ubiquitous and affordable) and the
advantages of credit cards (fast) and put them both in the same product. Our
payment system is therefore fast, secure, and affordable.

Right now people are using credit cards, e-transfers, and checks. Credit cards
tell retailers whether or not they are going to get paid for what they are
selling. But in order to work, they require an asset-heavy and insecure process
that costs merchants in the US alone $50 billion a year.

To the extent innovation has existed, it has been on top of existing credit
card networks. Because of these innovations, credit card processing has become
faster or more broadly available. But because innovations are on top of an
obsolete network, credit card processing has also become more expensive.

<br/>
**Who are your competitors, and who might become competitors? Who do you fear
most?**

Venmo (now inside PayPal) is really impressive. As is Dwolla. We are different
than both of these companies because we focus primarily on retail transactions.
Our goal is to do this live, at retail locations.

We don’t fear Visa or MasterCard. We talked to a senior executive at MasterCard
and they don’t worry about “interchange busting.” They want to become more
mobile, but they see no risk to their existing way of processing transactions.
We do worry about Square and PayPal. If they wanted to cannibalized their main
revenue source in credit card processing, they could take us out. But that’s a
difficult business decision for either of them to make.

We do fear Google and Apple. If they get their act together, they could really
disrupt the whole industry.

Also, if Bitcoins become mainstream and replace government-backed currency,
that would destroy the entire market we are aiming to disrupt.

<br/>
**What do you understand about your business that other companies in it just
don’t get?**

Others are trying to make it easier to accept credit cards or get rid of the
physical card. But that whole process is useless. Credit cards work fine. They
are just too expensive. Folks working on Bitcoin get it. And we get it. Unlike
Bitcoin based businesses, we think government-backed money has redeeming
features worth saving.

We have spent almost two years talking to retailers. In quick serve
restaurants, for example, the average margin for a retailer run between 1 and
4%, and credit card fees often eat up to 1-2% of total revenues. Often, a
reduction of fees by 25% would increase the bottom line by 25%. That’s why our
existing retailers are pushing their customers to use our app. We have a direct
impact on their bottom line. 

<br/>
**How do or will you make money? How much could you make? (We realize you can’t
know precisely, but give your best estimate.)**

Card processing costs US businesses $50 billion each year. Like card
processors, we’ll charge a transaction fee. Card processors make a lot of
money, but their margins are thin. They can’t reduce fees to compete. Their
high fees are caused by the structure of their network. We can charge 1% where
they have to charge 2-5%.

Assuming our existing engagement rate, we will make $22 million a year once we
reach 20,000 retailers. US has 1.1 million retailers. At our existing
engagement rate, our total addressable market would be $1.2 billion a year. 

<br/>
**If you’ve already started working on it, how long have you been working and
how many lines of code (if applicable) have you written?**

We’ve been working on our product for nearly 18 months. We’ve written just over
80,000 lines. We’ve processed 179,156 transactions already.

<br/>
**How far along are you? Do you have a beta yet? If not, when will you? Are you
launched? If so, how many users do you have? Do you have revenue? If so, how
much? If you’re launched, what is your monthly growth rate (in users or revenue
or both)?**

We have a retailer-side app and a user side app out on the market now.

We are making about $1500 in recurring monthly revenue now.

Our revenue is growing at about 30% a month. Our user transactions are growing
at 75% a month.

Our user-base is growing at 20% a month. 

<br/>
**How will you get users? If your idea is the type that faces a chicken-and-egg
problem in the sense that it won’t be attractive to users till it has a lot of
users (e.g. a marketplace, a dating site, an ad network), how will you overcome
that?**

Right now, retailers prompt users to download our app and 12% of those who walk
into our retailers download our app. We are in the process of significantly
upgrading our user app. The new app will embed ACH/Credit transactions.  Our
new, updated app will grow much faster because it embeds P2P transfers which
give us both a network effect and a use case outside our retail locations.
Users will now have a reason to download and use the app outside stores.  We
will target users outside stores using Facebook ads. Our initial testing
suggests that we’ll be able to acquire users for about $1 per user.

We have two channels of attracting retailers now. First, we pay for inbound
leads. Second, we have sold our product to enterprise, multi-location retailers
who make it mandatory for all their franchisees.

<br/>
**If you’re already incorporated, when were you? Who are the shareholders and
what percent does each own? If you’ve had funding, how much, who from, and at
what valuation or valuation cap?**

We incorporated in Canada in November 2012. The only three shareholders are
CanadaKaz , DannySu and Gflarity. We have raised $250K in convertible notes.
The majority of these notes have a $3.5 million valuation cap.

<br/>
**If you have already participated or committed to participate in an incubator,
“accelerator” or “pre-accelerator” program, please tell us about it.**

We participated in HyperDrive out of Communitech in Waterloo, Ontario. The
program is run by the same group that advised BufferBox and Thalmic Labs in
their early days. HyperDrive gave us $40K in exchange for 7% of the company.

<br/>
**If we fund you, which of the founders will commit to working exclusively (no
school, no other jobs) on this project for the next year?**

All founders are full time and working exclusively on this project and will
until it succeeds.

<br/>
**Where do you live now, and where would the company be based after YC?**

We live in Waterloo and Toronto now. We plan to return to Ontario after YC.

<br/>
**Was any of your code written by someone who is not one of your founders? If
so, how can you safely use it? (Open source is ok of course.)**

Yes. We have two employees that work full time on the company. They are both
University of Waterloo alumni and DannySu has known them both for over 10
years.  All of our code is covered by proper legal agreements. (CanadaKaz is a
lawyer.)

<br/>
**Please tell us something surprising or amusing that one of you has
discovered. (The answer need not be related to your project.)**

Americans, each year, write roughly 25 billion checks. They use their credit
cards roughly 22 billion times. While the number of consumer-to-business checks
is going down, the number of consumer to consumer checks is going up. American
consumers write on average 2.5 billion checks to each other each year.

  [1]: /2014/08/10/yc-interview/
