---
date: 2015-02-15 23:37:49 PST
title: The Growth Mindset
tags: Start-up, Kash, AvidTap, AvidRetail, Khan Academy, Salman Khan, Ben Kamens
---
"You can be who you want to be." We seem to tell that to little kids. We ask
them what they dream of becoming when they grow up. But you know, we're
hypocrites for asking them that if we ourselves don't keep on asking ourselves
the same question.

In today's society, it certainly seems like we're hypocrites. How many people
still retain the child-like ability to dream? I think I'm a little kid still. I
believe to dream you must also act, and to act is to struggle, and struggle
leads to growth.

I was hugely motivated after last summer and after reading a book by Khan
Academy founder. This blog entry is about my own experiences on the topic.


# Reading "One World Schoolhouse"

The period immediately after YC demo day was very vivid for me. It was a
whirlwind of epic experiences to remember for life. Not only that, I got to meet
Ben Kamens from Khan Academy and checked out the KA office. It was such a cool
experience.

During the brief period I was in Toronto before moving to San Francisco, I found
out about a book by Salman Khan: [One World Schoolhouse][1]. It was a very
engaging read so I definitely recommend it. Furthermore, it was like a
motivational speech for me and I devoured it.

I'm going to focus on a particular topic from the many topics in the book, and
that is The Growth Mindset. I also found Sal's experience ditching a well paid
job and starting something from nothing to be hugely motivational, but that's
the topic for another day.


# The Growth Mindset

Sal talked about not praising kids for being "smart" because that makes it seem
like intelligence or ability is a static thing. Instead he suggested that
parents praise their kids for sticking at something and struggle through the
difficulty. I happen to have a story on this to tell.

When I was in grade 9 I had gym classes. One of those classes involved doing
chin-up, but rather than doing repetition the goal was to hold yourself up on
the bar for as long as you could. My teacher said something to the class that I
will remember for life.

I wasn't an athletic kid, but I somehow came in the top 5 for longest duration
if I remember correctly. While I was holding myself up on the bar, the teacher
commented on how my arms were shaking and clearly past my physical ability. The
teacher commented that I kept persisting due to my mental determination. This
comment I still remember and must have had great influence on me.

As I went through school, I remember enjoying struggling through math problems.
I took it almost like a challenge. I think having a growth mindset is a huge
part of why I started a start-up. Having a growth mindset means believing things
are possible. Having a growth mindset means knowing from struggle comes
improvement. And if you do not shy away from struggle, then you will act. Now, taking
the first step is a must for overcoming inertia, so the growth mindset is
crucial to achieving anything.


# Artificial Limits

I'm baffled by parents saying something is too hard for their kids. Look. How do
you know something is too hard without giving your kid a fair try at struggling
through it?

How is anyone going to know that a bunch high school kids could write a speech
recognizer? Or a compiler? Or a fingerprint recognizer like many of the students
from my high school did? The thing is you wouldn't know until you try.

Sal talked about tracking people in math doesn't quite make sense. It's almost
like placing limits on people and giving up on them. Why don't we encourage them
to keep struggle through it? Perhaps the understanding will come just like
Sal's cousin.

As I read the book I wrote down tracking people in math is like judging a
startup like a baby. "Oh they'll never amount to anything" is simply a
projection of the commentators' artificial limits they want to place on other
people.

From a random soap opera I saw on Saturday night Chinese channel, there was a
saying that translated to "If you think you can, then you can." It is the phrase
I always repeat to myself whenever I'm struggling through something. The battle
is lost and won on that split second when you don't believe it's possible.

Look, I don't know if my company [Kash][2] can ultimately achieve our mission to
change the credit card industry. But I sure think we have as good a shot as
anybody. As a team we've done so many great feats simply because we don't give
up. If you think you can do it, then you can do it.

  [1]: http://www.amazon.com/One-World-Schoolhouse-Education-Reimagined/dp/1455508373/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1424065417&sr=8-1&keywords=one+world+schoolhouse
  [2]: http://withkash.com
